In your past work on
gesture recognition,
how many dimensions have you used for
your output probabilities?
>> Up to hundreds.
At one point, we are creating
appearance models of the hand,
using a similarity metric of how closely
the current hand looked like different
visual models of the hand
as features for the HMM.
However, the problem was there was a lot
of noise in that the models that didn't
match well were giving
relatively random results.
Causing many of the dimensions to be
meaningless unless the hand at that
particular time matched well.
>> So all those dimensions were actually
hurting you because they were all very
noisy most of the time?
>> Correct, however we can use boosting
to help us weight the feature vector to
combat this problem.
This technique is called
segmentally boosted HMMs.
One of my students,
did hi PhD dissertation on the idea.
And his results were often
20% better than normal HMMs.
For some datasets,
we got up to 70% improvement.
>> How does it work?
>> First, we align and
train the HMMs as normal.
Next, we use that training to
align the data that belongs to
each date as best we can.
We examine each state in
each model iteratively.
We boost by asking which features help
us most to differentiate the data for
our chosen state versus
the rest of the states.
We then weight the dimensions
appropriately in that HMM.
This trick combines some of the
advantages of the discriminative models
with generative methods.
>> Is it in a toolkit somewhere?
>> Not yet.
But I'm thinking about adding it to HTK
and our Georgia Tech Gesture Toolkit.
Personally, I think it can be pretty
powerful but it's not widely known yet.